Well, congratulations, Mr. Kozner, on your new assignment at Esquire.
Thank you.
And I guess, where do we start?
Why don't you tell me a little bit about yourself first?
Okay, how about if I... I'll shut this up again.
Ship recorder is running.
Okay, well, tell me what you found, Mr. Kozner, when you...
went to Esquire.
Was it a moribund magazine?
No, not at all.
I think it was a magazine that, first of all, has a superlative staff, and it's got one of the great histories, legacies, and nameplates in American magazines.
I think that there were elements in the magazine that were less successful than others.
And there were also some elements that were not in there that had been in the magazine in the past.
And so what I've been trying to do is simply to, in a sense, restore it to what it's traditionally been, rather than to make a radical reinvention or something like that.
When we talk about what it traditionally has been... Well, for example, it always had...
It was always a good deal about the relationship between men and women, what people call relationship stories, and stories about the state of manhood and men's relations with women.
And I think they had gotten away from that over the last several years.
I don't know why, but they just had.
And it just wasn't covering that area.
And it was...
Esquires always had a wonderful literary tradition, but I think that the fiction had evolved a bit into a preoccupation with kind of Western American writers who were excellent, but they were only one part of it.
of the spectrum of course esquire's reputation and this is my field as well um my my interest certainly i mean the great writers who who if if if they weren't introduced at esquire certainly they they wrote with great distinction and they've been the pages i mean but they weren't restricted to one genre
Well, I mean, we're talking about Hemingway, Faulkner, not Faulkner, but did Faulkner write for Esquire?
Yeah, I mean... These people wrote across the spectrum.
They weren't only, say, He-Man writers or something like that.
And so what I've tried to do is to broaden out the fiction mix.
I've introduced a section of the magazine called The Reader, which from time to most months runs...
page and a half excerpts from a selection of new books both fiction and non-fiction and also a play we did an excerpt from Tony Kushner's next play and we'll run short memoirs and various things like that so this is a way to give the reader on a monthly basis a sampling of some of the interesting books that are going to be published during the next month or two
And in the course of a year, a reader will get exposure to 50 or 60 books, as against simply printing eight short stories.
And you mean as excerpts?
Yeah, as excerpts.
And we've run, in the first several months, excerpts from Updike's book, Brazil, and we've run an excerpt from V.S.
Naipaul's new book.
We ran an excerpt from Brent Staple's book.
And, in fact, I was pleased that in the first couple of months of doing this, three of the
books that we'd chosen to highlight wound up with long and very favorable page one reviews in the Times Book Review.
Yeah, that was great.
So it's a way to keep the literary dimension of the magazine alive, but not restricted entirely to original new fiction.
At the same time,
We published a wonderful story by Don DeLillo a few months ago.
I was just looking at that one about a half hour ago.
In July, our next issue, which is coming out next week, week after.
The July issue is the summer reading issue, and it has Annie Proulx and Vince Pissarro, a new novel that he's bringing out, and an amazing...
illustrated Kafka by R. Crumb.
Kafka has illustrated the metamorphosis.
That's one of the most amazing things I've ever seen.
And a story by Mark Richard.
So, you know, there's a... You're working.
Oh, yeah.
That's great.
Stuff in.
That's just part of it.
Another element was the service element.
And, again, at different times in its history...
Esquire had very, very sophisticated and very effective service pieces.
And for a while, I think they got away from that some, not entirely, but somewhat.
And so I put in a section called the Guide, and each month the Guide deals with a single subject.
The first one was about sexual performance.
The next one was about how to take up golf, which I guess you do if you run out of outlets for your sexual performance.
We have one on how to keep your hair and what to do to keep from losing it.
We have one coming out on the new... It just came out on the new computer chips.
No, this isn't tongue-in-cheek.
No, no, no.
This is an eight-page...
serious service pieces.
Service means like a consumer guy type thing.
Well, not too much of products, but it tells you everything.
In other words, the golf one tells you what equipment you really need to store.
It gives you a sense of which of the best instructional books and videos are.
It talks about clothes, talks about
joining a country club or using a public course and it's it's a complete introduction if you're a man who wants to take up golf you read these eight pages and you know everything you have to do to get started we have one coming out on gambling shortly tell you everything about house odds at different casinos and the odds on different games and the
worth or lack of worth of different betting systems for different casino games, and so on.
And we have one on exercise that will be out in the July issue, which is all about
four or five day a week workouts.
You mentioned that the magazine had gotten away from what it was.
Well, it got away from some element.
But I mean, clearly this was on the one hand where it certainly was a writer's magazine.
It also was a man's magazine.
Correct.
And maybe you could talk a little bit about that.
I think it remained.
It has always been a man's magazine.
And I think there continued to be all through the 80s and 90s
some very fine writing in the magazine.
I just meant that the emphasis was, at certain times, the emphasis was away from
certain things that I think are interesting and that had worked in the past.
But here we are approaching the middle of the decade, and I wonder what... The end of the decade.
The middle of the decade, the end of the decade.
And I wonder what it means today to be a men's magazine.
Well, to be a men's magazine or to be a man?
Well, either one.
That's from both.
Why not?
Well, I think that... I actually think there's kind of a little resurrection of confidence among men.
I think that the depth of the...
despair and everybody beating up on men and men being made to feel you know guilty for being men i think some of that is beginning to fade and uh and uh men and and a number of women realize that you know hey men are men and they're not women someone said that the the model of the of the
The sensitive man, you know, is like a woman with a penis.
And the fact is, as everyone who's ever raised children knows, and as people who've been married, been around for a while, know that men and women are different.
And men certainly understand that women are different, and I think women are beginning to understand that men are different.
And guys, they're going to watch the football game, and they're going to look at pretty girls.
That doesn't mean they're monsters.
And men are not going to be totally comfortable revealing all their feelings and crying and all that stuff.
They can be attentive and not boorish, but there's a certain amount of, you know...
old-fashioned man-ness that's going to continue.
And I think people are getting a little support for that.
How important would you say your hard news background is?
Well, I think it's very helpful because a magazine like Esquire is really a journalistic magazine.
And it's a topical magazine, so that you have to try to keep the magazine focusing on those newsworthy things, not chasing after the news magazines per se,
or the newspapers, but to do topical journalism.
That's also always been part of the Esquire tradition.
But, I mean, certainly when you were at Newsweek, you know, I mean, it was deadline reporting.
Yeah, except that at Newsweek, we did an awful lot of what we used to call sociology stories.
But we did, God, we did a cover on The New Man in the mid-'70s.
May he rest in peace.
But Newsweek pioneered a kind of social reporting, and so I'm very comfortable doing this.
And then at New York Magazine, we did all the trends, stories, and stuff.
So I think it's all continuing.
I read a number of pieces recently, one most recently in the Washington Post about this whole concept of the celebrity, the star editor.
Yeah.
And I wonder how you feel about being, I mean, what do you, I guess I'm going about this in a... I don't believe it.
Well, certainly you must feel that you are expected to bring some kind of a personal...
or to imprint some kind of personal brand on the... Yeah, but I think that that was always true.
It's just that people didn't know the names of those who were imprinting the brand.
You know, I mean, I think every editor has to have a point of view, and the terrible term vision is used all the time, particularly in the advertising world.
But the fact is you have to have a pretty good idea of what the magazine should be.
Otherwise, you don't know what to put in and what to leave out.
You know, you have to have the standards of judgment.
I mean, I really wonder if the, I mean, I'm not asking you to comment on this necessarily, but Tina Brown leaves Vanity Fair, and Vanity Fair, they say, loses its buzz or whatever.
And then she goes to The New Yorker, and, you know, personally, I'm not crazy about what she's done at The New Yorker.
I detest the covers that she's been doing, and...
But in any case, is it Tina Brown that people are buying?
Or is it a rejuvenation?
Well, that's a good question.
I mean, I think in reality people are buying the magazine.
And despite all the publicity, I think only a fraction of magazine readers know the name of the editor of the magazine.
And you can have the most publicity that it's possible for a human being to achieve.
And if the magazine doesn't have good articles in it, good covers, good stuff, it's not going to succeed.
There is an element, certainly in the late 80s and 90s, of this kind of personality stuff.
I guess it's part of modern life.
It's sort of the anchorman syndrome imposed on magazines, as if the nature of the...
Evening newscast is really shaped by the personality of the anchor, which isn't really the case.
It's the presentation.
Anyway, I just think it's this year's flavor.
I guess I know writing for newspapers, the vital signs for me are you can measure them almost within days.
If you screw up, you hear from people.
Yeah.
Or you don't hear anything.
And you love it when they... If you have something that people consider outrageous or wrong, you'll hear from them.
But the real indicator is if you don't hear anything.
That means it's just going out there into the void and nobody cares much.
Right.
I consider these the vital signs.
Now, in your business, I guess the primary vital sign is sales and advertising.
Yeah, but that works in different ways.
In other words, there's an immediate kind of sign, which is newsstand sales.
I mean, that's the first frontier.
And if more people are buying the magazine, that's usually a better sign than a fewer people are buying.
It's not a definitive sign, but it's an early indicator because most magazines are primarily subscription magazines, and the impact of a new editor or a new editorial presentation can take two years or more
three years to work its way to the subscription file.
People have to renew and they have to actively like it or actively dislike it.
And those subscription things tend to move in a relatively glacial way.
Newstand sales are more immediate.
People have to put their hands in their pocket and pull out $3 or $2.50 or whatever.
And if they like something, they will buy it.
So that's a sign.
The letters to the editor are often a sign.
And also, the one that I use a lot is that if you're going around, if you find people commenting on individual articles, not saying, oh, the magazine looks great, but saying, I really love Gary Will's article on Nixon.
I really love Lynn Darling's article on Adulterer.
I really love Pete Hamill's article on Mike Tyson.
whatever it is.
I really love John Taylor's article about repressed memories.
And if you have different people citing different articles, many of them from the same issue, that's a pretty good sign.
That's great, isn't it?
And I've been hearing that from the time my first issue came out, which was
And I'm looking at the covers.
I have about a half a dozen here.
And, you know, there's a good sampling of cheesecake, we say.
And that's great.
But if you look at the marquee on the right,
Exactly.
You look at the names of the writers.
Mike Lupica, John DeLillo.
Yeah, there's a whole bunch of really good magazine writers and fiction people in there.
So, I mean, these are popular offerings.
Tell me about the cover.
I mean, how do you decide?
Tell me about the... Well, a cover should be a poster.
It should be relatively... I mean, it should be a clean, simple image.
Sometimes you can have some additional cover lines as we have to marquee the
writers, but basically it should be a simple thing, and the cover headline should be a good, clean, direct, short headline that gives you a pretty good idea of what it's about.
Now, have you gotten the July one and the Christie Brinkley one?
No, I'm supposed to get it tomorrow.
It's a meeting issue, and we've got...
Christie Brinkley, on the beach, and she's got, across her chest, Henry Kissinger's Diplomacy.
I was told to ask you about this.
I haven't received it yet.
Drop that book, which is a little joke, and pick up ours, you know, some reason.
But basically, the covers have been direct, simple, poster-ish things.
Tom Cruise, the...
Claudia Schiffer and David Copperfield, Lyle Lovett, Sex and the Married Man, and so on.
So that's my sense about covers.
They shouldn't be complicated.
They should directly communicate with the reader, and they should say, pick me up.
That's their main thing.
They should say, pick me up.
I'm interesting.
You want to look at me.
That's what a cover should do.
Now, the circulation was what when you took over?
Circulation hasn't changed terribly.
The circulation is about the monthly...
Total is about three-quarters of a million.
Do you have a goal?
Well, you see, the thing in magazine publishing, you don't necessarily want to increase the absolute size of the circulation, but you'd like to be able to charge more for it or to get people to renew their issues more regularly.
So the goal is not necessarily to increase, but it's to enrich that circulation.
And, of course, I guess for the advertising numbers to go up as well.
Well, that's an important thing, and we're going to have a very big September issue.
That's going to be the biggest issue in five years.
Now, who's the enemy for you, GQ?
Well, it's different.
You know, the direct business advertising industry,
challenger is gq um the um in terms of readership uh we feel that we're competing with the new yorker and vanity fair and magazines like that uh in other words general interest
magazines that have good provocative articles and good writers in them.
Have there been any studies to indicate how many magazines your typical reader is willing to buy?
I mean, if I subscribe to Esquire, does that mean I'm likely to quit on, you know,
I don't know.
That's an interesting question.
I've never quite heard that.
I'm wondering because, you know, I get books by the ton, of course, because I read it.
I think most people take... The way most magazine readership works, as I understand it, is a lot of people will take a news magazine.
They'll take...
a magazine that has, if they have a special interest in it, like a backpacking magazine or a golf or a tennis magazine or a car magazine.
And then they'll take one or perhaps more general interest magazine, The New Yorker or Esquire or Vanity Fair or in this area, New York Magazine.
And out of that mix, so that
people will subscribe to three or four.
Of course, some people subscribe to ten, and some people subscribe to only one.
But when I've done focus groups, I often find that people will subscribe to at least one or two general interest magazines, and almost everyone will have one special interest, perhaps one.
Condé Nast Traveler or Travel and Leisure or something like that.
Because, you know, I'm an old journalist who used to take notes.
Yes.
And I found that it made me pay attention better.
Absolutely.
You know, and I'm taping and... You're never learning how to keep it all in your head for half an hour?
Really, exactly.
You can run in the bathroom and scribble it all down.
Yeah.
When I started, I prided myself on being able, I thought, to maintain...
pretty accurately about a half hour's worth of
conversation and hold it for exactly and I also find with the tapes you say well it's on tape so I have to worry about it but I'm sure we covered this the subject of male sensibility but we're talking about men we added to the male sensibility totally do you want to talk about that yeah what I said was that I think there's more confidence on the part of men I think you know men in their 30s now
say, which is our sort of target reader.
They're not like their fathers, but they're not going to be Alan Alda and Phil Donahue wrapped up in one.
They're not like their fathers, and can you be just a little bit more specific?
Well, I think, for example, when my father was my age, he was really a middle-aged man.
And, you know, he...
He sort of dressed a certain way and acted a certain way.
And now men keep very active, a lot of them do anyway, can have very active lives into their 70s.
People play tennis and they travel and they get remarried and all that stuff.
It's not the idea that when you're 45 or something, you're on the big slope down.
And I think that that's a big change.
that the active life of someone can range from, you know, 20 to 70, not 20 to 45 or 20 to 50.
So that's a big difference.
And I think men certainly have learned about women's...
sensitivity to certain things and i think that uh you know well brought up men don't behave the way some people used to in the past and of course i think you did address yourself to the to the the the era the recently deceased era of the the purported sensitive yeah i mean but some of the some of that had a certain benefit i mean if people don't sit in business meetings and
tell tits and ass jokes and stuff.
I mean, there's no harm to certainly appreciating curbing some of that stuff.
That's not a problem.
And so that's to the good.
But at the same time, I think people realize that, hey, guy's going to watch football and guy's going to, you know, look at
girls behind and they're just going to do it.
They're never going to stop doing it.
I may not use that quote exactly.
Well, you know what I mean.
They're not going to stop doing it.
And there's no basic reason for them to stop doing it.
And they shouldn't feel tortured about it.
And I think that they're increasingly, people are coming around to that, you know.
here's here's a question and let's work with it a bit okay because this this particular piece and by the way i i told peter that uh i'm not precluding doing another piece for my my little syndicated newspaper that's fine uh but it won't be the same piece uh and maybe we can conclude with some some specific comment on writers and books and things uh which would make it more saleable to my clients because it is a literary column that i write
But immediately, you are a New Yorker born and bred.
Do you bring the perspective of a New Yorker to the magazine, or do you feel that you have a more?
Let's just play with that for a while.
Everybody's a creature of their...
upbringing to how does it influence the product to how does it influence the product to let's say I'm not I'm not a good I'm not a good judge of that I mean I've basically worked in in magazines for 30 years and I've worked for national magazines before and I worked for a city and regional magazine but I never
When I worked on Newsweek, I never thought of myself as a New Yorker working on Newsweek, although a number of the editors were from New York.
And when I worked on New York Magazine, I was one of the few New Yorkers on New York Magazine.
All the editors were from Texas and Chicago and everywhere.
There were only a few of us Manhattanites who actually worked on the magazine.
So there I felt like a New Yorker because I was working on a magazine called New York.
But here I don't feel particularly geographically or culturally bound.
I mean, I'm not from Paris, but I think that I've got a pretty broad view and a pretty eclectic set of tastes, and I don't think it's geographically defined.
Good.
And then maybe we can just talk... I have been to the Hamptons.
But I live in Connecticut.
There you go.
Where do you live in Connecticut?
Up in Reading.
What's your paper up there?
Well, they get the...
I guess they call it the Connecticut Post.
Yeah, well, that's the one I'm trying to get into.
The Danbury News Times is the big paper up there and the Bridgeport Post, which they call it.
The Connecticut Post, right.
And then we have a nice little weekly called the Reading Pilot, which is put out by an asset called Acorn Press that puts out.
weeklies in Easton, Connecticut, Weston, Connecticut, and Ridgefield.
Very literate paper.
Again, you talked about making Esquire, once again, a writer's magazine.
Tell me a little bit about your philosophy, your feelings towards good literature and that kind of stuff.
People read magazines to read writers.
To relate to what you said earlier about celebrity editors and stuff.
I don't think people really read magazines.
to discern the editor's touch I think they read magazines to read writers and successful editors are the ones who can attract strong writers and keep them and give them projects that showcase their talents and connect them with stories that are going to be provocative and interesting so the concept of a magazine without writers is an anomaly even the news magazines which used to
pride themselves on basically being written by committees of editors, have in the last 10 years broken out the names of writers and had more columnists and stuff.
I mean, an effort to give the magazines more individual voice and more identity.
So that's a trend that's universal.
A magazine like Esquire, you should read Esquire to read really good books.
reporting and fiction and topical journalism by very, very skillful writers.
Now, we have a big piece coming out in the August issue, Norman Mailer on Madonna.
Norman Mailer and Madonna have met not since Marx and Jefferson had breakfast together, as there's been such a meeting.
Was this a commission piece or something that Norman came up with, I wonder?
Oh, no, it's an original piece.
Did he suggest it or did you propose it?
No, we proposed it to him because after Madonna appeared on David Letterman, everybody was dumping on her.
And Norman remarked to Liz Smith at a party that he thought that she was fine and she was being taken advantage of, and we read that.
and asked him whether he wanted to do something with her, and she turned out to be very excited at the idea, and so they've gotten together, and that will be out in August.
Oh, that sounds good.
What's ahead on it?
Mailer on Madonna.
Good.
I'll put that in the piece.
It sounds pretty good.
Yeah, it'll be out in August, and then I have a piece in this July issue that you're going to get, When Nixon Died.
We got Gary Wills to write about him.
I don't want to read any other piece.
You know, I don't want to read just another Nixon piece, because it's going to be in the...
in the news magazines and everywhere, but I'm interested in Gary Wills.
Yeah, I just interviewed him two weeks ago, as a matter of fact.
And we had John Keegan write about D-Day in the June issue.
I love Keegan.
I love him.
He's great.
I'm looking at one of his books right here.
Clinton liked it so much that he invited him to dinner at the White House to talk about it.
Well, you couldn't ask for a better person to learn about warfare from.
So what we're trying to do is, you know, to bring a writer, and we've got Bella working on a piece for us.
And a bunch of good young writers as well.
But I mean, the point is to bring, to combine a distinguished writer with a subject, and then you got something.
So that's the game, and that's what we're trying to do.
And I think it's important to point out that while it is a men's magazine, you do not disdain.
You have women who write.
Oh, absolutely.
Certainly fiction as well as all the other.
Women readers and women editors.
That's great.
But it's a men's magazine that's of interest to men and to women who write.
who they share their lives with esquire has always been hospitable to wonderful women writing by women and uh and always will be well this is the 60th anniversary of the magazine right november well we're sailing on towards the millennium and uh and you feel that uh the tradition is strong and continues and we're bringing it back we're bringing that's great